== Build a blockchain application

=== What is a blockchain application?

Blockchain applications communicate within a network to agree upon which
data is valid and therefore should be stored, or whether it should be
rejected and bad actors potentially punished.

The set of blockchain rules is already implemented by Lisk modules and
libraries. By reusing them and implementing the well-designed
link:../lisk-sdk/introduction.md[Lisk SDK Framework], it’s easy to
compose new case-specific applications.

For more information on blockchain use cases, visit Blockchain Business
in the
https://lisk.io/academy/blockchain-business/blockchain-in-business[Lisk
Academy].

=== What is the Lisk SDK?

The link:../lisk-sdk/introduction.md[Lisk SDK] provides a development
framework that enables developers to create their own custom blockchain
applications with ease.

==== The Lisk SDK consists of the following packages:

* link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md[Lisk Framework]:
Consists of a selection of various Modules and Components which each
provide specific functionality or logic for use in blockchain networks.
* link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/introduction.md[Lisk Elements]:
Collection of NPM packages that provide blockchain- and lisk-specific
functionalities.
* link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-commander/introduction.md[Lisk Commander]:
Command line tool to interact with the network and maintain a node.

=== Build a blockchain application in 3 steps

image:../assets/3-steps.png[Build a bApp in 3 steps]

==== 1. Set up the SDK

To get started building a blockchain application,
link:../lisk-sdk/introduction.md#usage[set up the Lisk SDK].

The link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#modules[Modules] and
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#components[Components]
of link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md[Lisk Framework] come
with a set of predefined default configurations, allowing you to start
and test your network immediately.

To get your blockchain application started for the first time, follow
the steps described in the link:../lisk-sdk/introduction.md#usage[Lisk
SDK - Usage] section.

==== 2. Configure and customize the application

===== A. Configure modules and components

After the first successful start, feel free to
link:../lisk-sdk/configuration.md[configure] the
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#modules[Modules] and
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#components[Components]
to suit your specific needs.

It is also possible to exchange Modules with different ones, or to add
new Modules to provide additional functionality.

To view the list of currently available ready-to-use Modules and
Components, check out the
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#list-of-core-modules[list
of Modules] and the
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#components[list of
Components].

For a full list of all config options and their default values, see the
link:../lisk-sdk/configuration.md#list-of-configuration-options[List of
configuration options] or the file
https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/blob/development/sdk/src/samples/config_devnet.json[config_devnet.json]
on GitHub.

===== B. Register custom transaction types

Transactions are the main way to add data to your blockchain. The most
basic transaction type, which is part of most blockchains, is for
example a transfer-transaction type to send tokens from one account to
another. You can choose the appropriate transaction types for your
application and its use case.

For comparison, please view the
link:../lisk-protocol/transactions.md[list of all transaction types]
which are implemented in the Lisk Protocol.

To create custom transaction types, utilize the provided
`+BaseTransaction+` interface as described in the section for
link:../lisk-sdk/customize.md[custom transactions].

See the link:tutorials.md[tutorials] to see examples of how to create
custom transaction types and how to add them to your application:

* link:tutorials/hello-world.md[Hello World App]: A example of a Lisk
blockchain application with 1 custom transaction type, which extends the
BaseTransaction type.
* link:tutorials/cashback.md[Cashback App]: A more practical example
creating the new transaction type `+Cashback+`. Cashback extends the
pre-existing transaction type TransferTransaction, making for a
straightforward implementation.

==== 3. Interact with the network

While your network is up and running, interact with the network and the
node through the API and use
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-commander/introduction.md[Lisk Commander] or
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/introduction.md[Lisk Elements] to create
sendable transaction objects.

To monitor and explore the network, you may want to set up a monitoring
solution like e.g. https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-explorer[Lisk
Explorer].

Depending on the level of customization, Lisk Explorer and Lisk
Commander may also require customization to prevent other services from
failing.

Another simple way to interact with the network is by connecting it to
https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-hub[Lisk Hub]. Lisk Hub provides a simple
and beautiful user interface to create and manage accounts on the
network, and also to interact with the network by sending different
types of transactions.

Once your blockchain is finished, and it is possible to send the
transactions (and custom transactions), you can create a frontend to
allow users to interact and use your blockchain application. To connect
your frontend to your network, we recommend to make use of
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages.md[Lisk Elements’ packages] like
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages/api-client.md[lisk-api-client].

____
Check out the example applications at the link:tutorials.md[tutorials],
to see concrete examples how to make first interactions with a
blockchain application.
____

See more options in the link:interact-with-network.md[`Interact with the
network'] getting started section.
