== Interact with the network

____
Every action that puts data on the blockchain, or gets data from it, is
an interaction with the blockchain network.
____

There are several groups that need/want to interact with the network.
Below is a list with the most relevant groups and their recommended
tools:

* *Exchanges* interact heavily with the network, e.g.Â by transferring
tokens for their customers. Exchanges are recommended to
link:maintain-node.md[set up their own node] to interact with the
network reliably.
* *Delegates* interact with the network by forging new blocks and adding
them to the blockchain. A delegate typically is also a *node operator*.
* *Node operators* have a general interest in monitoring their node and
the network. Their node provides them with a private API that can be
used to make different queries or to post transactions to the network.
Depending on their preferences, node operators might want to use
link:#a-use-the-command-line[Lisk Commander],
link:#b-write-scripts-in-javascript[Lisk Elements] or a graphical
interface like link:#c-use-lisk-hub[Lisk Hub].
* *Developers* test and improve the functionality of their blockchain
application. For quick interaction we recommend to use
link:#a-use-the-command-line[Lisk Commander].
* *Applications* interact through the API with the network. For
convenience, applications would use wrappers like
[@liskHQ/lisk-api-client](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages/api-client.md).
Applications might also want to make use of
https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service[Lisk Service] and its extended
API.
* *End users* mostly interact with the network through Graphical User
Interfaces such as wallet applications like link:#c-use-lisk-hub[Lisk
Hub].

=== How to interact with the network

____
The following tools are suited for interacting with the Mainnet and
Testnet of Lisk, but they can be used to interact with other blockchain
applications that have been developed using the Lisk SDK.
____

You can choose from up to 5 ways to interact with an existing network
based on what is most convenient for your needs:

=== A. Use the Command-line

link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-commander/introduction.md[Lisk Commander] is the
CLI-tool that lets you interact with the network conveniently through
the command line.

See a list of all commands and their example responses on the
link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-commander/user-guide/commands.md[Commands page].

=== B. Write scripts in Javascript

link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/introduction.md[Lisk Elements] is a
collection of Javascript libraries that help applications to interact
with the network.

On the link:../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages.md[Packages page] of Lisk
Elements, all available libraries are listed and documented.

One of the most useful packages in this regard is the
[@liskhq/lisk-api-client](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages/api-client.md)
as it provides a slick interface to interact with the network in
Javascript.

=== C. Use Lisk Hub

https://lisk.io/hub[Lisk Hub] is the Graphical User Interface (GUI) to
interact with the network.

It consists of wallet functionalities like sending transactions and
viewing account history, as well as more extended features like delegate
voting or registering as a delegate.

=== D. Query the API

Query the https://lisk.io/documentation/lisk-core/api[API] manually.
Either from a public node, or connect to your own private node to
interact with the network.

==== Use a public node

There are a number of nodes that are available for the public use.

LiskHQ for example is running a public testnet node, that is also used
to make https://lisk.io/documentation/lisk-core/api[live requests] while
trying out the different API endpoints in the documentation.

____
When hitting the ``Try it out'' button beside each endpoint, it is
possible to execute the corresponding API request and get a live
response from Lisk Testnet. It will also display the corresponding curl
command to make the request from the command-line.
____

==== Use your private node

When link:maintain-node.md[setting up Lisk Core], the API will be
private by default, which means API requests will be only accepted from
localhost.

To change this, it is possible to define exclusive
link:../lisk-core/configuration#api-access-control[whitelists], that
allow specific addresses to perform API requests on that node.

=== E. Query the extended API

https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service[Lisk Service] combines various
services in the Lisk ecosystem and makes it available through an
extended API with a larger selection of endpoints.
