== Lisk Core Documentation

=== Table of contents

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|===
|link:setup/setup.md[Setup] |link:upgrade/upgrade.md[Upgrade]
|link:user-guide/user-guide.md[User Guide]
|link:setup/pre-install/preinstallation.md[Pre-Installation]
|link:upgrade/binary/upgrade-binary.md[Binary]
|link:user-guide/administration/admin.md[Administration]

|link:setup/install/installation.md[Installation]
|link:upgrade/docker/upgrade-docker.md[Docker]
|link:user-guide/configuration/configuration.md[Configuration]

|link:troubleshooting/troubleshooting.md[Troubleshooting]
|link:upgrade/source/upgrade-source.md[Source]
|link:user-guide/api/api.md[API]

| |link:upgrade/migration/migration.md[Migration] |
|===

Lisk Core is the program that implements the
link:/lisk-protocol/introduction.md[Lisk Protocol]. Every machine must
set it up in order to run a node that allows for participation in the
network. Setting up Lisk Core enables a user to: - Contribute to the
decentralisation of the Lisk network - Explore data recorded on the Lisk
blockchain - Post transactions to the Lisk blockchain - Enable/Disable
forging for a registered delegate - Configure Lisk Core to specific
needs, as required

An instance of Lisk Core is generally detailed in two different ways:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Info |Note
|image:../assets/info-icon.png[info note,title="Info Note"] |A Lisk Core
instance connected to a network is referred to as a Lisk *Node*.
|===

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Info |Note
|image:../assets/info-icon.png[info note,title="Info Note"] |A Lisk Node
connected to other Lisk Nodes is referred to as a Lisk *Peer*.
|===

Both meanings refer to a machine which, after installing and executing
Lisk Core, become a server. The server participates in the network and
provides blockchain data to its clients.

=== Networks

Lisk Core can be connected to different networks. There are two key
public networks, entirely independent of each other, that are always
accessible: *Mainnet* and *Testnet*.

==== Mainnet

Mainnet is where the true Lisk economy exists. On this network, Lisk
users are able to transfer LSK tokens from one account to another,
register accounts as delegates, vote for another delegates or register
dApps. It can be explored via the https://explorer.lisk.io[Lisk
Explorer].

==== Testnet

Testnet is an independent replica of the Lisk Mainnet intended as an
area to rehearse upgrades before they take place on the Lisk Mainet.
This is where new versions and fixes of Lisk Core are tested. It can be
explored via https://testnet-explorer.lisk.io[Lisk Testnet Explorer].

Each connects to a network specified in the config file
https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk/blob/development/config.json#L2[`+config.json+`].
When a user decides which network they wish to connect to, they must
follow the correspondent tutorial in the link:setup/setup.md[Setup]
section.

=== Components

The Lisk Core consists of 4 main components:

https://nodejs.org[image:../assets/nodejs.png[Node.js,title="Node.js"]]

https://nodejs.org/[Node.js] serves as the underlying engine for code
execution in Lisk Core. Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform
JavaScript run-time environment that executes JavaScript code
server-side. Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that
makes it lightweight and efficient.

https://swagger.io[image:../assets/swagger-logo.png[Swagger,title="Swagger"]]

https://swagger.io[Swagger] is an open source software framework backed
by a large ecosystem of tools that helps developers design, build,
document, and consume RESTful Web services. As part of the Lisk Core
documentation, the whole API specification can be explored interactively
via the Swagger-UI interface.

https://www.postgresql.org[image:../assets/postgresql.png[PostgreSQL,title="PostgreSQL"]]

https://www.postgresql.org[PostgreSQL] is a powerful, open source
object-relational database system with over 30 years of active
development which has earned it a strong reputation for reliability,
feature robustness, and performance. All Information on the Lisk
mainchain is stored inside of PostgreSQL databases.

https://redis.io[image:../assets/redis.png[Redis,title="Swagger"]]

https://redis.io[Redis] is an open source, in-memory data structure
store. Lisk Core mainly uses it to cache API responses. This prevents
performance drops in the application, for example when the same API
request is sent repeatedly.

=== Contribute to the Codebase

Everyone is invited to contribute to the Lisk Core project. We welcome
and appreciate all contributions.

==== Github

All necessary information can be found on our
https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk[Lisk Core Github].

==== Contribution Guidelines

Please be sure to read and follow our
https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk/blob/development/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md[Contribution
Guidelines].

==== Gitter

If you have any further questions please join our
https://gitter.im/LiskHQ/lisk[Gitter].
